feat: add March blogpost (#1047)
withastro/astro.build: src/content/blog/whats-new-march-2024.mdx

---
title: "What's new in Astro - March 2024"
description: "March 2024 - Astro Studio, Astro Developer Portal and so much more"
publishDate: "March 31, 2024"
authors:
  - elian
coverImage: "/src/content/blog/_images/whats-new-shared.webp"
socialImage: "/src/content/blog/_images/whats-new-march-2024/og.webp"
lang: "en"
---
import ShowcaseGrid from './_whats-new-components/ShowcaseGrid.astro';
import ThemeGrid from './_whats-new-components/ThemeGrid.astro';

A month full of releases, Astro Studio, Astro Developer Portal, and so much more. Let's dive in!

## Updates from Mission Control

- Astro Studio is finally here! 🚀
- We launched the all new Astro Developer Portal! 🎉
- All tests in Astro have been migrated to `node:test`

## Releases

- Astro [4.5](https://astro.build/blog/astro-450/)
- The first release of `astro:db`
- Starlight [0.21](https://github.com/withastro/starlight/releases/tag/%40astrojs%2Fstarlight%400.21.0)

## Docs

> @TODO

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This month, we added a new [Upgrade Astro] page to the docs that includes all kinds of guidance on how, when, and why to upgrade to the latest version, including an explanation of Astro's semantic versioning from our platform team. If you ever wondered what all the different numbers in our release versions meant, we've now
got you covered!

Our weekly Discord call “Talking and Doc’ing” is a chance for you to watch Team Docs work in public, jump in a shared Codespace or Gitpod Workspace, and contribute to the docs live, together. This month’s topics included:

- Updating our [community website](https://community.astro.build) with all of our past community award winners going back to the very beginning, giving us a chance to test a new pagination component.
- Adding our new `<Steps />` component to the entire Build a Blog beginner tutorial, and reminding ourselves that not *every* numbered list is a set of instructions to follow.
- Helping a brand new Astro-focused tips and resource site get off the ground, using Starlight to present high quality Astro content like recipes, tutorials and guide.
```

---
title: "What's new in Astro - March 2024"
description: "March 2024 - Astro Studio, Astro Developer Portal and so much more"
publishDate: "March 31, 2024"
authors:
  - elian
coverImage: "/src/content/blog/_images/whats-new-shared.webp"
socialImage: "/src/content/blog/_images/whats-new-march-2024/og.webp"
lang: "en"
---
import ShowcaseGrid from './_whats-new-components/ShowcaseGrid.astro';
import ThemeGrid from './_whats-new-components/ThemeGrid.astro';
import { YouTube } from '@astro-community/astro-embed-youtube';

A month full of releases, Astro Studio, Astro Developer Portal, and so much more. Let's dive in!

## Updates from Mission Control

- [Astro Studio](https://studio.astro.build) is finally here! 🚀
- We launched the all new [Astro Developer Portal](/blog/dev-portal)! 🎉
- All tests in Astro have been [migrated to `node:test`](/blog/node-test-migration/)

## Releases

- Astro [4.5](https://astro.build/blog/astro-450/)
- The first release of [`astro:db`](blog/astro-db-deep-dive/)
- Starlight [0.21](https://github.com/withastro/starlight/releases/tag/%40astrojs%2Fstarlight%400.21.0)

## Docs

> This month, we added a new [Upgrade Astro](https://docs.astro.build/en/upgrade-astro/) page to the docs that includes all kinds of guidance on how, when, and why to upgrade to the latest version, including an explanation of Astro's semantic versioning from our platform team. If you ever wondered what all the different numbers in our release versions meant, we've now

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This month, we added a new [Upgrade Astro](https://docs.astro.build/en/upgrade-astro/) page to the docs that includes how to upgrade to the latest version, past upgrade guides and docs for older versions, as well as an explanation of Astro's semantic versioning from our platform team. If you ever wondered what all the different numbers in our release versions meant, we've now
```

- 📺 [Astro’s Big Announcement!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yq1uD3pjhM4)	by @chrispennington
- 📄 [Exploring Astro DB](https://dev.to/rosnovsky/exploring-astro-db-2d89) by @rosnovsky
- 📄 [Adding resumability to Astro with Qwik](https://developers.netlify.com/guides/adding-resumability-to-astro-with-qwik/) by @pauliescanlon
- 📄 [the Framework Field Guide](https://unicorn-utterances.com/collections/framework-field-guide-fundamentals) by @crutchcorn
- 📄 [How to create animated blog cards with Astrojs and Tailwind CSS](https://lexingtonthemes.com/tutorials/how-to-create-animated-blog-cards-with-astrojs-and-tailwind-css/) by @mike_andreuzza
- 📄 [Dynamic footer date for static websites](https://astro-tips.dev/recipes/dynamic-footer-date-for-static-websites/) by @florian_lefebvre
- 📄 [Deploy Astro to AWS Amplify](https://www.launchfa.st/blog/deploy-astro-aws-amplify) by @rishirajjain
- 📄 [How to simplify your code and avoid repeating your markup with Astro and Tailwind](https://lexingtonthemes.com/tutorials/how-to-simplify-your-code-and-avoid-repeating-your-markup-with-astrojs-and-tailwind-css/) by @mike_andreuzza

> - 📄 [Build your interface in Astro: Components](https://dev.to/dvalin99/build-your-interface-in-astro-components-2gng)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- 📄 [Build your interface in Astro: Components](https://domenicotenace.dev/blog/build-your-interface-in-astro/) by @domeT99 
```

> - 📄 [An Upgrade to the latest web technologies](https://shikhashikz.com/blog/an-upgrade-to-latest-web-technology/) by @nitinatshikhashikz

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- 📄 [An Upgrade to the latest web technologies](https://shikhashikz.com/blog/an-upgrade-to-latest-web-technology/) by @nitinatshikhashikz
- 📄 [Tailwind dark mode: with or without JavaScript](https://shelbyjenkins.github.io/easy/blog/light-dark-modes/) by @shelbyAsAShelby
- 📺 [How To Build a Multilingual Website with Astro & Storyblok | Part 1](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=X2uEy6fmPP4) by @arisafukuzaki
- 📄 [What is a layout in React? Comparing Next.js, React Router, and Astro](https://www.ericburel.tech/blog/what-layout-means-in-react) by @ericbureltech
```

### Tips & Tools

The latest community-built utilities and integrations to help you build with Astro.

- [Template for Astro + TailwindCSS monorepo](https://github.com/solelychloe/astro-tailwind-monorepo) by @solelychloe
- [Astro db Lucia auth starter](https://github.com/ElianCodes/lucia-astrodb) by @ElianCodes
- [Discover your first Astro PR](https://astro-first-pr.zeabur.app/) by @liruifengv
- [Astro db Lucia auth Adapter](https://github.com/pilcrowOnPaper/lucia-adapter-astrodb) by @pilcrowonpaper
- [Astro Mastodon component](https://github.com/rosnovsky/astro-mastodon) by @rosnovsky

### Themes & Templates

Several new Astro themes were added & released this month. Try them out!

<ThemeGrid themes={['refo', 'gurido', 'resume04', 'resume03']} />

More themes:

- [theme.technomancy.dev](https://theme.technomancy.dev/) by @liltechnomancer

> - [clarity-astro-theme.netlify.app](https://clarity-astro-theme.netlify.app/) by @rush2jay

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [clarity-astro-theme.netlify.app](https://clarity-astro-theme.netlify.app/) by @rush2jay
[astro-website-starter](https://github.com/shoaibkh4n/astro-website-starter) by @SBK-4N
```

	{ url: 'https://thefamilia.vercel.app/', title: '@monikossa'},
	{ url: 'https://travelcraft-wheat.vercel.app/', title: '@monikossa'},
	{ url: 'https://www.luckygenius.ai', title: '@opus131'},
	{ url: 'https://kulpinski.dev/', title: '@piotrkulpinski'},
	{ url: 'https://gautamvaishnav.vercel.app/', title: '@gautamvaishnav'},
	{ url: 'https://ep2024.europython.eu/', title: '@patrick.py'},
	{ url: 'https://art.tricked.dev/', title: '@tricked.'},
	{ url: 'https://flexilla-docs.vercel.app/', title: '@johnkat_mj'},
	{ url: 'https://astrolicious.dev/blog/hello-world', title: '@alexanderniebuhr'},
	{ url: 'https://piccalil.li/',title: '@leannecodes'},
	{ url: 'https://ryanfurrer.com/', title: '@ryandotfurrer'},
	{ url: 'https://www.ibrahimo.dev/', title: '@ibodev'},
	{ url: 'https://thiti.dev/', title: '@thiti.y'},
	{ url: 'https://jeremylondon.com/', title: '@jeremy'},
	{ url: 'https://thegoatlifefilm.com/', title: '@sanjayrjs'},
	{ url: 'https://astro-blog-db1703.netlify.app/', title: '@skywalker.db'},
	{ url: 'https://www.robcipolla.co.uk/', title: 'robcipolla.'},
	{ url: 'https://mikuhl.me/', title: 'mikuhl_'},
	{ url: 'https://legrostonneau-festival.fr/', title: 'colir_'},

> 	{ url: 'https://gu.illau.me/', title: 'edo999'},

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	{ url: 'https://gu.illau.me/', title: 'edo999'},
	{ url: 'https://newsminutedaily.com/', title: '@tanmay099'},
	{ url: 'https://jackshelton.com/', title: '@jackshelton'},
	{ url: 'https://www.ibrahimo.dev/', title: '@ibo'},
```

- 📄 [Adding resumability to Astro with Qwik](https://developers.netlify.com/guides/adding-resumability-to-astro-with-qwik/) by @pauliescanlon
- 📄 [the Framework Field Guide](https://unicorn-utterances.com/collections/framework-field-guide-fundamentals) by @crutchcorn
- 📄 [How to create animated blog cards with Astrojs and Tailwind CSS](https://lexingtonthemes.com/tutorials/how-to-create-animated-blog-cards-with-astrojs-and-tailwind-css/) by @mike_andreuzza
- 📄 [Dynamic footer date for static websites](https://astro-tips.dev/recipes/dynamic-footer-date-for-static-websites/) by @florian_lefebvre
- 📄 [Deploy Astro to AWS Amplify](https://www.launchfa.st/blog/deploy-astro-aws-amplify) by @rishirajjain
- 📄 [How to simplify your code and avoid repeating your markup with Astro and Tailwind](https://lexingtonthemes.com/tutorials/how-to-simplify-your-code-and-avoid-repeating-your-markup-with-astrojs-and-tailwind-css/) by @mike_andreuzza
- 📄 [Build your interface in Astro: Components](https://dev.to/dvalin99/build-your-interface-in-astro-components-2gng)
- 📄 [An Upgrade to the latest web technologies](https://shikhashikz.com/blog/an-upgrade-to-latest-web-technology/) by @nitinatshikhashikz

> ### Tips & Tools
> 
> The latest community-built utilities and integrations to help you build with Astro.
> 
> - [Template for Astro + TailwindCSS monorepo](https://github.com/solelychloe/astro-tailwind-monorepo) by @solelychloe
> - [Astro db Lucia auth starter](https://github.com/ElianCodes/lucia-astrodb) by @ElianCodes
> - [Discover your first Astro PR](https://astro-first-pr.zeabur.app/) by @liruifengv
> - [Astro db Lucia auth Adapter](https://github.com/pilcrowOnPaper/lucia-adapter-astrodb) by @pilcrowonpaper
> - [Astro Mastodon component](https://github.com/rosnovsky/astro-mastodon) by @rosnovsky
> 
> ### Themes & Templates
> 
> Several new Astro themes were added & released this month. Try them out!
> 
> <ThemeGrid themes={['refo', 'gurido', 'resume04', 'resume03']} />
> 
> More themes:
> 
> - [theme.technomancy.dev](https://theme.technomancy.dev/) by @liltechnomancer
> - [clarity-astro-theme.netlify.app](https://clarity-astro-theme.netlify.app/) by @rush2jay
> - [PocketNaut](https://github.com/nnisarggada/pocketnaut/) by @nnisarg
> - [astro-website-starter](https://github.com/shoaibkh4n/astro-website-starter) by @SBK-4N
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Tips & Tools

The latest community-built utilities and integrations to help you build with Astro.

- [Discover your first Astro PR](https://astro-first-pr.zeabur.app/) by @liruifengv
- [Astro db Lucia auth Adapter](https://github.com/pilcrowOnPaper/lucia-adapter-astrodb) by @pilcrowonpaper
- [Astro Mastodon component](https://github.com/rosnovsky/astro-mastodon) by @rosnovsky
- [Switchcase Astro web app](https://switchcase.xyz) by @hellosendpie
- [Clerk Astro integration](https://clerk.com/changelog/2024-03-28)
- [Astro Embed](https://astro-embed.netlify.app/) by @Chris 

### Themes & Templates

Several new Astro themes were added to the [Astro theme directory](https://astro.build/themes/) this month. Try them out!

<ThemeGrid themes={['refo', 'gurido', 'resume04', 'resume03']} />

More themes and templates:

- [theme.technomancy.dev](https://theme.technomancy.dev/) by @liltechnomancer
- [clarity-astro-theme.netlify.app](https://clarity-astro-theme.netlify.app/) by @rush2jay
- [PocketNaut](https://github.com/nnisarggada/pocketnaut/) by @nnisarg
- [astro-website-starter](https://github.com/shoaibkh4n/astro-website-starter) by @SBK-4N
- [Template for Astro + TailwindCSS monorepo](https://github.com/solelychloe/astro-tailwind-monorepo) by @solelychloe
- [Astro db Lucia auth starter template](https://github.com/ElianCodes/lucia-astrodb) by @ElianCodes

```

- [Astro Mastodon component](https://github.com/rosnovsky/astro-mastodon) by @rosnovsky
- [Switchcase Astro web app](https://switchcase.xyz) by @hellosendpie
- [Clerk Astro integration](https://clerk.com/changelog/2024-03-28)
- [Astro Embed](https://astro-embed.netlify.app/) by @Chris 

### Themes & Templates

Several new Astro themes were added to the [Astro theme directory](https://astro.build/themes/) this month. Try them out!

<ThemeGrid themes={['refo', 'gurido', 'resume04', 'resume03']} />

More themes and templates:

- [theme.technomancy.dev](https://theme.technomancy.dev/) by @liltechnomancer
- [clarity-astro-theme.netlify.app](https://clarity-astro-theme.netlify.app/) by @rush2jay
- [Stellar documentation theme](https://stellar-theme.netlify.app/) by @prerad
- [PocketNaut](https://github.com/nnisarggada/pocketnaut/) by @nnisarg
- [astro-website-starter](https://github.com/shoaibkh4n/astro-website-starter) by @SBK-4N
- [Template for Astro + TailwindCSS monorepo](https://github.com/solelychloe/astro-tailwind-monorepo) by @solelychloe
- [Astro db Lucia auth starter template](https://github.com/ElianCodes/lucia-astrodb) by @ElianCodes

### Websites

> All the community member websites submitted to our Discord `#showcase` channel and featured on community calls this month.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Looking for some inspiration? See all the community member websites submitted to our Discord `#showcase` channel and featured on community calls this month.
```

	{ url: 'https://www.robcipolla.co.uk/', title: 'robcipolla.'},
	{ url: 'https://mikuhl.me/', title: 'mikuhl_'},
	{ url: 'https://legrostonneau-festival.fr/', title: 'colir_'},
	{ url: 'https://gu.illau.me/', title: 'edo999'},
	{ url: 'https://newsminutedaily.com/', title: '@tanmay099'},
	{ url: 'https://jackshelton.com/', title: '@jackshelton'},
];

<ShowcaseGrid items={sites} />

### Starlight in the wild

export const starlightSites = [
	{ url: 'https://docs.atuin.sh/', title: 'Atuin'},
	{ url: 'https://bibtex.eu/', title: 'Bibtex'},
	{ url: 'https://bloclibrary.dev', title: 'Bloclibrary'},
	{ url: 'https://codefori.github.io/docs/', title: 'Codefori'},
	{ url: 'https://docs.astronvim.com/', title: 'astronvim'},
	{ url: 'https://docs.bebop.sh/', title: 'Bepop'},
	{ url: 'https://screenshotone.com/docs/', title: 'Screenshot One'},
	{ url: 'https://sammccord.github.io/solid-pixi/', title: 'solid-pixi'},
	{ url: 'https://guides.jbrains.ca/', title: 'Guides by jbrains_'},
	{ url: 'https://astro-i18n.netlify.app/', title: 'astro-18n'},
	{ url: 'https://astro-tips.dev/', title: 'astro-tips'},
	{ url: 'https://ion.sst.dev/', title: 'Ion' },

> 	{ url: 'https://www.zvm.app/', title: 'zig version manager'}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	{ url: 'https://www.zvm.app/', title: 'zig version manager'},
	{url: 'https://astro-embed.netlify.app/', title: 'astro-embed'}
```

Hear some of our past community award winners share what it's like contributing to Astro, and see for yourself what makes the Astro experience so special. 

<YouTube id='https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TtRtkTzHVBU' />

### Community Awards February

These are some of the people who went above and beyond last month to make all our lives just a little (or a lot!) better:

- 🌟 $500 to @mingjunlu for contributing to all aspects of the Astro project and community including support, translations, migrating tests and fixing issues.
- 🍾 $250 to @ktym4a for contributions to the Astro ecosystem, including core and integrations.
- 🎈 $250 to @jackshelton Shelton for outstanding leadership and community support with the QwikDev/astro integration.
- 🎊 $250 to @soslan117 for their enthusiastic contributions translating Astro Docs into Russian.
- 🎉 $250 to @bryceguy for creating several popular community packages and leadership in community support.

👕 ✨ Swag shop merch issued this month to @tigger_hyk, @nathanlawsn, and @sergios1630 !

Check them out and learn more about the Astro Community Awards on [our community website](https://community.astro.build).

## Showcase

### Content

> Because you can never get tired of watching and reading Astro Content.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Featured: "The Story of Astro DB"

<YouTube id=1https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aUfYzjKNCh4' />

Because you can never get tired of watching and reading Astro Content.
```

> - 📄 [How to create a sticky changelog with Tailwind and Astro](https://lexingtonthemes.com/tutorials/how-to-create-a-sticky-changelog-with-tailwind-css-and-astrojs/)	by @mike_andreuzza

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- 📄 [How to create a sticky changelog with Tailwind and Astro](https://lexingtonthemes.com/tutorials/how-to-create-a-sticky-changelog-with-tailwind-css-and-astrojs/) by @mike_andreuzza
```

> - 📄 [How to create a sticky changelog with Tailwind and Astro](https://lexingtonthemes.com/tutorials/how-to-create-a-sticky-changelog-with-tailwind-css-and-astrojs/) by @mike_andreuzza
> - 📄 [How to create a dynamic feature grid with Astrojs and Tailwind CSS](https://lexingtonthemes.com/tutorials/how-to-create-a-dynamic-feature-grid-with-astrojs-and-tailwind-css/) by @mike_andreuzza
> - 📄 [eCommerce Store with Astro](https://crystallize.com/blog/building-ecommerce-with-astro) by @nebojsa_cookie_duster
> - 📄 [How to create a sidebar navigation with Tailwind and Alpine](https://lexingtonthemes.com/tutorials/how-to-create-a-sidebar-navigation-with-tailwindcss-and-alpine-js/) by @mike_andreuzza
> - 📄 [How to create and print an invoice with Astro and Tailwind](https://lexingtonthemes.com/tutorials/how-to-create-and-print-an-invoice-with-astrojs-and-tailwind-css/) by @mike_andreuzza
> - 📄 [Serving Astro with Rust](https://www.yieldcode.blog/post/serving-astro-with-rust/)
> - 📄 [create an interactive testimonial with Astro & Tailwind](https://lexingtonthemes.com/tutorials/how-to-create-an-interactive-testimonial-with-astro-tailwind-css-and-alpine-js/) by @mike_andreuzza
> - 📄 [Going Full-stack on Astro with Cloudflare D1 and Drizzle](https://kevinkipp.com/blog/going-full-stack-on-astro-with-cloudflare-d1-and-drizzle/) by @third774
> - 🎧 [Astro Launches an Integrated Database](https://shoptalkshow.com/607/)		
> - 📺 [integrate Sanity into Astro](https://twitter.com/simeonGriggs/status/1768690041314824319)	by Simeon Griggs
> - 📄 [Creating a Guestbook with Astro DB](https://ryantrimble.com/blog/creating-a-guestbook-with-astro-db/)		
> - 📄 [Things I've worked on at Astro in 2023](https://erika.florist/articles/thingsiveworkedonatastro2023/) by @princesseuh
> - 📄 [Using Astro and Server-Sent Events (SSE) to Build Realtime In-App Notifications](https://www.koyeb.com/tutorials/using-astro-and-server-sent-events-sse-to-build-realtime-in-app-notifications)	by @rishirajjain
> - 📺 [The Astro Community: where contributors find a home](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TtRtkTzHVBU)	by @withastro
> - 📺 [Astro’s Big Announcement!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yq1uD3pjhM4)	by @chrispennington
> - 📄 [Exploring Astro DB](https://dev.to/rosnovsky/exploring-astro-db-2d89) by @rosnovsky

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- 📄 [How to create a sticky changelog with Tailwind and Astro](https://lexingtonthemes.com/tutorials/how-to-create-a-sticky-changelog-with-tailwind-css-and-astrojs/) by @mike_andreuzza
- 📄 [How to create a dynamic feature grid with Astrojs and Tailwind CSS](https://lexingtonthemes.com/tutorials/how-to-create-a-dynamic-feature-grid-with-astrojs-and-tailwind-css/) by @mike_andreuzza
- 📄 [eCommerce Store with Astro](https://crystallize.com/blog/building-ecommerce-with-astro) by @nebojsa_cookie_duster
- 📄 [How to create a sidebar navigation with Tailwind and Alpine](https://lexingtonthemes.com/tutorials/how-to-create-a-sidebar-navigation-with-tailwindcss-and-alpine-js/) by @mike_andreuzza
- 📄 [How to create and print an invoice with Astro and Tailwind](https://lexingtonthemes.com/tutorials/how-to-create-and-print-an-invoice-with-astrojs-and-tailwind-css/) by @mike_andreuzza
- 📄 [Serving Astro with Rust](https://www.yieldcode.blog/post/serving-astro-with-rust/)
- 📄 [Create an interactive testimonial with Astro & Tailwind](https://lexingtonthemes.com/tutorials/how-to-create-an-interactive-testimonial-with-astro-tailwind-css-and-alpine-js/) by @mike_andreuzza
- 📄 [Going Full-stack on Astro with Cloudflare D1 and Drizzle](https://kevinkipp.com/blog/going-full-stack-on-astro-with-cloudflare-d1-and-drizzle/) by @third774	
- 📺 [integrate Sanity into Astro](https://twitter.com/simeonGriggs/status/1768690041314824319) by Simeon Griggs
- 📄 [Creating a Guestbook with Astro DB](https://ryantrimble.com/blog/creating-a-guestbook-with-astro-db/)		
- 📄 [Things I've worked on at Astro in 2023](https://erika.florist/articles/thingsiveworkedonatastro2023/) by @princesseuh
- 📄 [Using Astro and Server-Sent Events (SSE) to Build Realtime In-App Notifications](https://www.koyeb.com/tutorials/using-astro-and-server-sent-events-sse-to-build-realtime-in-app-notifications)	by @rishirajjain
```

> - 📄 [How to create a sticky changelog with Tailwind and Astro](https://lexingtonthemes.com/tutorials/how-to-create-a-sticky-changelog-with-tailwind-css-and-astrojs/)	by @mike_andreuzza
> - 📄 [How to create a dynamic feature grid with Astrojs and Tailwind CSS](https://lexingtonthemes.com/tutorials/how-to-create-a-dynamic-feature-grid-with-astrojs-and-tailwind-css/) by @mike_andreuzza
> - 📄 [eCommerce Store with Astro](https://crystallize.com/blog/building-ecommerce-with-astro) by @nebojsa_cookie_duster
> - 📄 [How to create a sidebar navigation with Tailwind and Alpine](https://lexingtonthemes.com/tutorials/how-to-create-a-sidebar-navigation-with-tailwindcss-and-alpine-js/) by @mike_andreuzza
> - 📄 [How to create and print an invoice with Astro and Tailwind](https://lexingtonthemes.com/tutorials/how-to-create-and-print-an-invoice-with-astrojs-and-tailwind-css/) by @mike_andreuzza
> - 📄 [Serving Astro with Rust](https://www.yieldcode.blog/post/serving-astro-with-rust/)
> - 📄 [create an interactive testimonial with Astro & Tailwind](https://lexingtonthemes.com/tutorials/how-to-create-an-interactive-testimonial-with-astro-tailwind-css-and-alpine-js/) by @mike_andreuzza
> - 📄 [Going Full-stack on Astro with Cloudflare D1 and Drizzle](https://kevinkipp.com/blog/going-full-stack-on-astro-with-cloudflare-d1-and-drizzle/) by @third774
> - 🎧 [Astro Launches an Integrated Database](https://shoptalkshow.com/607/)		
> - 📺 [integrate Sanity into Astro](https://twitter.com/simeonGriggs/status/1768690041314824319)	by Simeon Griggs
> - 📄 [Creating a Guestbook with Astro DB](https://ryantrimble.com/blog/creating-a-guestbook-with-astro-db/)		
> - 📄 [Things I've worked on at Astro in 2023](https://erika.florist/articles/thingsiveworkedonatastro2023/) by @princesseuh
> - 📄 [Using Astro and Server-Sent Events (SSE) to Build Realtime In-App Notifications](https://www.koyeb.com/tutorials/using-astro-and-server-sent-events-sse-to-build-realtime-in-app-notifications)	by @rishirajjain
> - 📺 [The Astro Community: where contributors find a home](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TtRtkTzHVBU)	by @withastro
> - 📺 [Astro’s Big Announcement!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yq1uD3pjhM4)	by @chrispennington
> - 📄 [Exploring Astro DB](https://dev.to/rosnovsky/exploring-astro-db-2d89) by @rosnovsky
> - 📄 [Adding resumability to Astro with Qwik](https://developers.netlify.com/guides/adding-resumability-to-astro-with-qwik/) by @pauliescanlon
> - 📄 [the Framework Field Guide](https://unicorn-utterances.com/collections/framework-field-guide-fundamentals) by @crutchcorn
> - 📄 [How to create animated blog cards with Astrojs and Tailwind CSS](https://lexingtonthemes.com/tutorials/how-to-create-animated-blog-cards-with-astrojs-and-tailwind-css/) by @mike_andreuzza
> - 📄 [Dynamic footer date for static websites](https://astro-tips.dev/recipes/dynamic-footer-date-for-static-websites/) by @florian_lefebvre
> - 📄 [Deploy Astro to AWS Amplify](https://www.launchfa.st/blog/deploy-astro-aws-amplify) by @rishirajjain
> - 📄 [How to simplify your code and avoid repeating your markup with Astro and Tailwind](https://lexingtonthemes.com/tutorials/how-to-simplify-your-code-and-avoid-repeating-your-markup-with-astrojs-and-tailwind-css/) by @mike_andreuzza
> - 📄 [Build your interface in Astro: Components](https://domenicotenace.dev/blog/build-your-interface-in-astro/) by @domeT99 
> - 📄 [An Upgrade to the latest web technologies](https://shikhashikz.com/blog/an-upgrade-to-latest-web-technology/) by @nitinatshikhashikz
> - 📄 [Tailwind dark mode: with or without JavaScript](https://shelbyjenkins.github.io/easy/blog/light-dark-modes/) by @shelbyAsAShelby
> - 📺 [How To Build a Multilingual Website with Astro & Storyblok | Part 1](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=X2uEy6fmPP4) by @arisafukuzaki
> - 📄 [What is a layout in React? Comparing Next.js, React Router, and Astro](https://www.ericburel.tech/blog/what-layout-means-in-react) by @ericbureltech

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- 📄 [How to create a sticky changelog with Tailwind and Astro](https://lexingtonthemes.com/tutorials/how-to-create-a-sticky-changelog-with-tailwind-css-and-astrojs/)	by @mike_andreuzza
- 📄 [How to create a dynamic feature grid with Astrojs and Tailwind CSS](https://lexingtonthemes.com/tutorials/how-to-create-a-dynamic-feature-grid-with-astrojs-and-tailwind-css/) by @mike_andreuzza
- 📄 [eCommerce Store with Astro](https://crystallize.com/blog/building-ecommerce-with-astro) by @nebojsa_cookie_duster
- 📄 [How to create a sidebar navigation with Tailwind and Alpine](https://lexingtonthemes.com/tutorials/how-to-create-a-sidebar-navigation-with-tailwindcss-and-alpine-js/) by @mike_andreuzza
- 📄 [How to create and print an invoice with Astro and Tailwind](https://lexingtonthemes.com/tutorials/how-to-create-and-print-an-invoice-with-astrojs-and-tailwind-css/) by @mike_andreuzza
- 📄 [Serving Astro with Rust](https://www.yieldcode.blog/post/serving-astro-with-rust/)
- 📄 [create an interactive testimonial with Astro & Tailwind](https://lexingtonthemes.com/tutorials/how-to-create-an-interactive-testimonial-with-astro-tailwind-css-and-alpine-js/) by @mike_andreuzza
- 📄 [Going Full-stack on Astro with Cloudflare D1 and Drizzle](https://kevinkipp.com/blog/going-full-stack-on-astro-with-cloudflare-d1-and-drizzle/) by @third774	
- 📺 [integrate Sanity into Astro](https://twitter.com/simeonGriggs/status/1768690041314824319)	by Simeon Griggs	
- 📄 [Things I've worked on at Astro in 2023](https://erika.florist/articles/thingsiveworkedonatastro2023/) by @princesseuh
- 📄 [Using Astro and Server-Sent Events (SSE) to Build Realtime In-App Notifications](https://www.koyeb.com/tutorials/using-astro-and-server-sent-events-sse-to-build-realtime-in-app-notifications)	by @rishirajjain
- 📄 [Adding resumability to Astro with Qwik](https://developers.netlify.com/guides/adding-resumability-to-astro-with-qwik/) by @pauliescanlon
- 📄 [the Framework Field Guide](https://unicorn-utterances.com/collections/framework-field-guide-fundamentals) by @crutchcorn
- 📺 [Lessons from Astro and Nuxt - EdinburghJS](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=G6S2RsDo1fI) by @aFuzzyBear 
- 📄 [How to create animated blog cards with Astrojs and Tailwind CSS](https://lexingtonthemes.com/tutorials/how-to-create-animated-blog-cards-with-astrojs-and-tailwind-css/) by @mike_andreuzza
- 📄 [Dynamic footer date for static websites](https://astro-tips.dev/recipes/dynamic-footer-date-for-static-websites/) by @florian_lefebvre
- 📺 [Netflix-style web app build in Astro](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SZcdUT0osz8) by @learnwithjason
- 📄 [Deploy Astro to AWS Amplify](https://www.launchfa.st/blog/deploy-astro-aws-amplify) by @rishirajjain
- 📄 [How to simplify your code and avoid repeating your markup with Astro and Tailwind](https://lexingtonthemes.com/tutorials/how-to-simplify-your-code-and-avoid-repeating-your-markup-with-astrojs-and-tailwind-css/) by @mike_andreuzza
- 📄 [Build your interface in Astro: Components](https://domenicotenace.dev/blog/build-your-interface-in-astro/) by @domeT99 
- 📄 [An Upgrade to the latest web technologies](https://shikhashikz.com/blog/an-upgrade-to-latest-web-technology/) by @nitinatshikhashikz
- 📄 [Tailwind dark mode: with or without JavaScript](https://shelbyjenkins.github.io/easy/blog/light-dark-modes/) by @shelbyAsAShelby
- 📺 [How To Build a Multilingual Website with Astro & Storyblok | Part 1](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=X2uEy6fmPP4) by @arisafukuzaki
- 📄 [What is a layout in React? Comparing Next.js, React Router, and Astro](https://www.ericburel.tech/blog/what-layout-means-in-react) by @ericbureltech
```

### Tips & Tools

The latest community-built utilities and integrations to help you build with Astro.

- [Discover your first Astro PR](https://astro-first-pr.zeabur.app/) by @liruifengv
- [Astro db Lucia auth Adapter](https://github.com/pilcrowOnPaper/lucia-adapter-astrodb) by @pilcrowonpaper
- [Astro Mastodon component](https://github.com/rosnovsky/astro-mastodon) by @rosnovsky
- [Switchcase Astro web app](https://switchcase.xyz) by @hellosendpie
- [Clerk Astro integration](https://clerk.com/changelog/2024-03-28)
- [Astro Embed](https://astro-embed.netlify.app/) by @Chris 

### Themes & Templates

Several new Astro themes were added to the [Astro theme directory](https://astro.build/themes/) this month. Try them out!

<ThemeGrid themes={['refo', 'gurido', 'resume04', 'resume03']} />

More themes and templates:

- [theme.technomancy.dev](https://theme.technomancy.dev/) by @liltechnomancer
- [clarity-astro-theme.netlify.app](https://clarity-astro-theme.netlify.app/) by @rush2jay

> - [PocketNaut](https://github.com/nnisarggada/pocketnaut/) by @nnisarg

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Stellar documentation theme](https://stellar-theme.netlify.app/) by @prerad
- [PocketNaut](https://github.com/nnisarggada/pocketnaut/) by @nnisarg
```

	{ url: 'https://mikuhl.me/', title: 'mikuhl_'},
	{ url: 'https://legrostonneau-festival.fr/', title: 'colir_'},
	{ url: 'https://gu.illau.me/', title: 'edo999'},
	{ url: 'https://newsminutedaily.com/', title: '@tanmay099'},
	{ url: 'https://jackshelton.com/', title: '@jackshelton'},
	{ url: 'https://www.ibrahimo.dev/', title: '@ibo'},
];

<ShowcaseGrid items={sites} />

### Starlight in the wild

export const starlightSites = [
	{ url: 'https://docs.atuin.sh/', title: 'Atuin'},
	{ url: 'https://bibtex.eu/', title: 'Bibtex'},
	{ url: 'https://bloclibrary.dev', title: 'Bloclibrary'},
	{ url: 'https://codefori.github.io/docs/', title: 'Codefori'},
	{ url: 'https://docs.astronvim.com/', title: 'astronvim'},
	{ url: 'https://docs.bebop.sh/', title: 'Bepop'},
	{ url: 'https://screenshotone.com/docs/', title: 'Screenshot One'},
	{ url: 'https://sammccord.github.io/solid-pixi/', title: 'solid-pixi'},
	{ url: 'https://guides.jbrains.ca/', title: 'Guides by jbrains_'},
	{ url: 'https://astro-i18n.netlify.app/', title: 'astro-18n'},
	{ url: 'https://astro-tips.dev/', title: 'astro-tips'},
	{ url: 'https://ion.sst.dev/', title: 'Ion' },

> 	{ url: 'https://stellar-theme.netlify.app/', title: 'prerad' },

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

- 📄 [eCommerce Store with Astro](https://crystallize.com/blog/building-ecommerce-with-astro) by @nebojsa_cookie_duster
- 📄 [How to create a sidebar navigation with Tailwind and Alpine](https://lexingtonthemes.com/tutorials/how-to-create-a-sidebar-navigation-with-tailwindcss-and-alpine-js/) by @mike_andreuzza
- 📄 [How to create and print an invoice with Astro and Tailwind](https://lexingtonthemes.com/tutorials/how-to-create-and-print-an-invoice-with-astrojs-and-tailwind-css/) by @mike_andreuzza
- 📄 [Serving Astro with Rust](https://www.yieldcode.blog/post/serving-astro-with-rust/)
- 📄 [Create an interactive testimonial with Astro & Tailwind](https://lexingtonthemes.com/tutorials/how-to-create-an-interactive-testimonial-with-astro-tailwind-css-and-alpine-js/) by @mike_andreuzza
- 📄 [Going Full-stack on Astro with Cloudflare D1 and Drizzle](https://kevinkipp.com/blog/going-full-stack-on-astro-with-cloudflare-d1-and-drizzle/) by @third774	
- 📺 [integrate Sanity into Astro](https://twitter.com/simeonGriggs/status/1768690041314824319) by Simeon Griggs

> - 📄 [Creating a Guestbook with Astro DB](https://ryantrimble.com/blog/creating-a-guestbook-with-astro-db/)		

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- 📄 [Creating a Guestbook with Astro DB](https://ryantrimble.com/blog/creating-a-guestbook-with-astro-db/) by @mrtrimble
```

- 📄 [Using Astro and Server-Sent Events (SSE) to Build Realtime In-App Notifications](https://www.koyeb.com/tutorials/using-astro-and-server-sent-events-sse-to-build-realtime-in-app-notifications)	by @rishirajjain
- 📄 [Adding resumability to Astro with Qwik](https://developers.netlify.com/guides/adding-resumability-to-astro-with-qwik/) by @pauliescanlon
- 📄 [the Framework Field Guide](https://unicorn-utterances.com/collections/framework-field-guide-fundamentals) by @crutchcorn
- 📄 [How to create animated blog cards with Astrojs and Tailwind CSS](https://lexingtonthemes.com/tutorials/how-to-create-animated-blog-cards-with-astrojs-and-tailwind-css/) by @mike_andreuzza
- 📄 [Dynamic footer date for static websites](https://astro-tips.dev/recipes/dynamic-footer-date-for-static-websites/) by @florian_lefebvre
- 📄 [Deploy Astro to AWS Amplify](https://www.launchfa.st/blog/deploy-astro-aws-amplify) by @rishirajjain
- 📄 [How to simplify your code and avoid repeating your markup with Astro and Tailwind](https://lexingtonthemes.com/tutorials/how-to-simplify-your-code-and-avoid-repeating-your-markup-with-astrojs-and-tailwind-css/) by @mike_andreuzza

> - 📄 [Build your interface in Astro: Components](https://domenicotenace.dev/blog/build-your-interface-in-astro/) by @domeT99 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- 📄 [Build your interface in Astro: Components](https://domenicotenace.dev/blog/build-your-interface-in-astro/) by @domeT99
- 📺 [Netflix-style web app build in Astro](youtube.com/watch?v=SZcdUT0osz8) by @jlengstorf
```

	{ url: 'https://www.luckygenius.ai', title: '@opus131'},
	{ url: 'https://kulpinski.dev/', title: '@piotrkulpinski'},
	{ url: 'https://gautamvaishnav.vercel.app/', title: '@gautamvaishnav'},
	{ url: 'https://ep2024.europython.eu/', title: '@patrick.py'},
	{ url: 'https://art.tricked.dev/', title: '@tricked.'},
	{ url: 'https://flexilla-docs.vercel.app/', title: '@johnkat_mj'},
	{ url: 'https://astrolicious.dev/blog/hello-world', title: '@alexanderniebuhr'},
	{ url: 'https://piccalil.li/',title: '@leannecodes'},
	{ url: 'https://ryanfurrer.com/', title: '@ryandotfurrer'},
	{ url: 'https://www.ibrahimo.dev/', title: '@ibodev'},
	{ url: 'https://thiti.dev/', title: '@thiti.y'},
	{ url: 'https://jeremylondon.com/', title: '@jeremy'},
	{ url: 'https://thegoatlifefilm.com/', title: '@sanjayrjs'},
	{ url: 'https://astro-blog-db1703.netlify.app/', title: '@skywalker.db'},
	{ url: 'https://www.robcipolla.co.uk/', title: 'robcipolla.'},
	{ url: 'https://mikuhl.me/', title: 'mikuhl_'},
	{ url: 'https://legrostonneau-festival.fr/', title: 'colir_'},
	{ url: 'https://gu.illau.me/', title: 'edo999'},
	{ url: 'https://newsminutedaily.com/', title: '@tanmay099'},

> 	{ url: 'https://jackshelton.com/', title: '@jackshelton'},

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	{ url: 'https://jackshelton.com/', title: '@jackshelton'},
	{ url: 'https://peterhanania.com/', title: '@peterhanania'},
```

	{ url: 'https://kulpinski.dev/', title: '@piotrkulpinski'},
	{ url: 'https://gautamvaishnav.vercel.app/', title: '@gautamvaishnav'},
	{ url: 'https://ep2024.europython.eu/', title: '@patrick.py'},
	{ url: 'https://art.tricked.dev/', title: '@tricked.'},
	{ url: 'https://flexilla-docs.vercel.app/', title: '@johnkat_mj'},
	{ url: 'https://astrolicious.dev/blog/hello-world', title: '@alexanderniebuhr'},
	{ url: 'https://piccalil.li/',title: '@leannecodes'},
	{ url: 'https://ryanfurrer.com/', title: '@ryandotfurrer'},
	{ url: 'https://www.ibrahimo.dev/', title: '@ibodev'},
	{ url: 'https://thiti.dev/', title: '@thiti.y'},
	{ url: 'https://jeremylondon.com/', title: '@jeremy'},
	{ url: 'https://thegoatlifefilm.com/', title: '@sanjayrjs'},
	{ url: 'https://astro-blog-db1703.netlify.app/', title: '@skywalker.db'},
	{ url: 'https://www.robcipolla.co.uk/', title: 'robcipolla.'},
	{ url: 'https://mikuhl.me/', title: 'mikuhl_'},
	{ url: 'https://legrostonneau-festival.fr/', title: 'colir_'},
	{ url: 'https://gu.illau.me/', title: 'edo999'},
	{ url: 'https://newsminutedaily.com/', title: '@tanmay099'},
	{ url: 'https://jackshelton.com/', title: '@jackshelton'},

> 	{ url: 'https://peterhanania.com/', title: '@peterhanania'},

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	{ url: 'https://peterhanania.com/', title: '@peterhanania'},
	{ url: 'https://frankstall.one/portfolio/', title:'@frank_stallone'},
	{ url: 'https://mailta.pe/', title:'@imacrea'},
	{ url: 'https://blog.asyncx.top/en/', title:'@AsyncX'},
	{ url: 'https://ecommerce-project-creative.netlify.app/', title:'@roboxgamer52'},
```

- 📄 [Dynamic footer date for static websites](https://astro-tips.dev/recipes/dynamic-footer-date-for-static-websites/) by @florian_lefebvre
- 📄 [Deploy Astro to AWS Amplify](https://www.launchfa.st/blog/deploy-astro-aws-amplify) by @rishirajjain
- 📄 [How to simplify your code and avoid repeating your markup with Astro and Tailwind](https://lexingtonthemes.com/tutorials/how-to-simplify-your-code-and-avoid-repeating-your-markup-with-astrojs-and-tailwind-css/) by @mike_andreuzza
- 📄 [Build your interface in Astro: Components](https://domenicotenace.dev/blog/build-your-interface-in-astro/) by @domeT99
- 📺 [Netflix-style web app build in Astro](youtube.com/watch?v=SZcdUT0osz8) by @jlengstorf
- 📄 [An Upgrade to the latest web technologies](https://shikhashikz.com/blog/an-upgrade-to-latest-web-technology/) by @nitinatshikhashikz
- 📄 [Tailwind dark mode: with or without JavaScript](https://shelbyjenkins.github.io/easy/blog/light-dark-modes/) by @shelbyAsAShelby
- 📺 [How To Build a Multilingual Website with Astro & Storyblok | Part 1](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=X2uEy6fmPP4) by @arisafukuzaki

> - 📄 [What is a layout in React? Comparing Next.js, React Router, and Astro](https://www.ericburel.tech/blog/what-layout-means-in-react) by @ericbureltech

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- 📄 [What is a layout in React? Comparing Next.js, React Router, and Astro](https://www.ericburel.tech/blog/what-layout-means-in-react) by @ericbureltech
- 📄 [Deploy Astro to Amazon ECS on AWS Fargate: A Step-by-Step Guide](https://www.launchfa.st/blog/deploy-astro-aws-fargate) by @rishirajjain
```

---
title: "What's new in Astro - March 2024"

> description: "March 2024 - Astro Studio, Astro Developer Portal and so much more"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: "March 2024 - Astro DB, Astro Developer Portal and so much more"
```

publishDate: "March 31, 2024"
authors:
  - elian
coverImage: "/src/content/blog/_images/whats-new-shared.webp"
socialImage: "/src/content/blog/_images/whats-new-march-2024/og.webp"
lang: "en"
---
import ShowcaseGrid from './_whats-new-components/ShowcaseGrid.astro';
import ThemeGrid from './_whats-new-components/ThemeGrid.astro';
import { YouTube } from '@astro-community/astro-embed-youtube';

> A month full of releases, Astro Studio, Astro Developer Portal, and so much more. Let's dive in!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A month full of releases, Astro DB, Astro Developer Portal, and so much more. Let's dive in!
```

## Updates from Mission Control

> - [Astro Studio](https://studio.astro.build) is finally here! 🚀

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Astro DB](https://astro.build/db/) is now available in early preview! 🚀
```

- We launched the all new [Astro Developer Portal](/blog/dev-portal)! 🎉
- All tests in Astro have been [migrated to `node:test`](/blog/node-test-migration/)

## Releases

- Astro [4.5](https://astro.build/blog/astro-450/)

> - The first release of [`astro:db`](blog/astro-db-deep-dive/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The first release of [`astro:db`](https://astro.build/blog/astro-db-deep-dive/)
```

> - The first release of [`astro:db`](blog/astro-db-deep-dive/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The first release of [`astro:db`](/blog/astro-db-deep-dive/)
```

<YouTube id='https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TtRtkTzHVBU' />

### Community Awards February

These are some of the people who went above and beyond last month to make all our lives just a little (or a lot!) better:

- 🌟 $500 to @mingjunlu for contributing to all aspects of the Astro project and community including support, translations, migrating tests and fixing issues.
- 🍾 $250 to @ktym4a for contributions to the Astro ecosystem, including core and integrations.
- 🎈 $250 to @jackshelton Shelton for outstanding leadership and community support with the QwikDev/astro integration.
- 🎊 $250 to @soslan117 for their enthusiastic contributions translating Astro Docs into Russian.
- 🎉 $250 to @bryceguy for creating several popular community packages and leadership in community support.

👕 ✨ Swag shop merch issued this month to @tigger_hyk, @nathanlawsn, and @sergios1630 !

Check them out and learn more about the Astro Community Awards on [our community website](https://community.astro.build).

## Showcase

### Content

Featured: "The Story of Astro DB"

> With the launch of Astro DB and Astro Studio this month, there were several reaction videos, streams, and interviews. Learn the story of Astro DB, and see some of the first reactions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the launch of Astro DB and Astro Studio this month, there were several reaction videos, streams, and interviews. Learn the story of Astro DB, and see some of the first reactions by the community:
```
